[Alerting][Docs] Adds Alerting & Task Manager Scalability Guidance & Health Monitoring (#91171)
elastic/kibana: docs/user/alerting/alerting-troubleshooting.asciidoc

[role="xpack"]
[[alerting-troubleshooting]]
== Alerting Troubleshooting

Use the information in this section to troubleshoot common problems and find answers for frequently asked questions.

For issues that you cannot fix yourself … we’re here to help.
If you are an existing Elastic customer with a support contract, please create a ticket in the
https://support.elastic.co/customers/s/login/[Elastic Support portal].
Or post in the https://discuss.elastic.co/[Elastic forum].

[float]
[[alerts-small-check-interval-run-late]]
=== Alerts with Small Check Intervals Run Late

*Symptoms*:

Alerts are scheduled to run every 2 seconds but they seem to be running too late

*Resolution*:

As described under <<alerting-background-tasks>>, Alerts are ran as background tasks at a cadence defined by their *check interval*.

> This issue can be addressed by either tweaking the {kib} Task Manager settings or adjusting the Alerts in question.

Author: Yeah, I can add that.
I've been thinking for a while that the UI should show that as a warning.

[role="xpack"]
[[alerting-troubleshooting]]
== Alerting Troubleshooting

> Use the information in this section to troubleshoot common problems and find answers for frequently asked questions.

Reviewer: Here's the content we recommend in our template:

This page describes how to resolve common problems you might encounter with Alerting. If your problem isn’t described here, please review open issues in the following GitHub repositories:

- name of repo

Have a question? Contact us in the [https://discuss.elastic.co/](discuss forum).

Author: ah, cool, I'll use that instead.
I copied this from [here](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/monitoring-troubleshooting.html) to keep things consistent.

Not sure who owns those docs... might be worth pinging them here 🤔

For issues that you cannot fix yourself … we’re here to help.
If you are an existing Elastic customer with a support contract, please create a ticket in the
https://support.elastic.co/customers/s/login/[Elastic Support portal].
Or post in the https://discuss.elastic.co/[Elastic forum].

[float]
[[alerts-small-check-interval-run-late]]

> === Alerts with Small Check Intervals Run Late

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Alerts with small check intervals run late
```

> *Symptoms*:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Problem*:
```

> Alerts are scheduled to run every 2 seconds but they seem to be running too late

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alerts with a small check interval, such as every two seconds, run later than scheduled.
```

*Resolution*:

> As described under <<alerting-background-tasks>>, Alerts are ran as background tasks at a cadence defined by their *check interval*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alerts run as background tasks at a cadence defined by their *check interval*.
```

> When an Alert *check interval* is smaller than the Task Manager <<task-manager-settings,`poll_interval`>> the alert will inevitably run late.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an Alert *check interval* is smaller than the Task Manager <<task-manager-settings,`poll_interval`>> the alert will run late.
```

> This issue can be addressed by either tweaking the <<task-manager-settings,{kib} Task Manager settings>> or increasing the *check interval* of the Alerts in question.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Either tweak the <<task-manager-settings,{kib} Task Manager settings>> or increase the *check interval* of the alerts in question.
```

> For details on resolving this issue please see <<task-manager-health-scheduled-tasks-small-schedule-interval-run-late>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details, see <<task-manager-health-scheduled-tasks-small-schedule-interval-run-late>>.
```

[float]
[[scheduled-alerts-run-late]]

> === Alerts Run Late

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Alerts run late
```

> *Symptoms*:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Problem*:
```

> Scheduled Alerts run at an inconsistent cadence, often running late.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scheduled alerts run at an inconsistent cadence, often running late.
```

> Actions run long after the status of an Alert changes, notifying us of the change too late.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Actions run long after the status of an alert changes, sending a notification of the change too late.
```

> *Resolution*:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Solution*:
```

> As described under <<alerting-background-tasks>>, Alerts and Actions are ran as background tasks ran by each {kib} instance at a default rate of 10 tasks every 3 seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alerts and actions run as background tasks by each {kib} instance at a default rate of ten tasks every three seconds.
```

> This means that if many alerts or actions have been scheduled to run at the same time, pending tasks will queue in {es}. Each {kib} instance then polls for pending tasks at a rate of up to 10 tasks at a time, at 3 second intervals. As Alerts and Actions are backed by tasks, it is possible for pending tasks in the queue to exceed this capacity and run late as a result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If many alerts or actions are scheduled to run at the same time, pending tasks will queue in {es}. Each {kib} instance then polls for pending tasks at a rate of up to ten tasks at a time, at three second intervals. Because alerts and actions are backed by tasks, it is possible for pending tasks in the queue to exceed this capacity and run late.
```

> For details on diagnosing the underlying causes of such delays, please see <<task-manager-health-tasks-run-late>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For details on diagnosing the underlying causes of such delays, see <<task-manager-health-tasks-run-late>>.
```

> Alerting and Action tasks can be identified amongst the variety of tasks in {kib} by their type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alerting and action tasks are identified by their type.
```

> * Alert tasks always begin with `alerting:`. For example, the `alerting:.index-threshold` tasks back the <<alert-type-index-threshold, Index Threshold Stack Alert>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Alert tasks always begin with `alerting:`. For example, the `alerting:.index-threshold` tasks back the <<alert-type-index-threshold, index threshold stack alert>>.
```

> * Action tasks always begin with `actions:`. For example, the `actions:.index` tasks back the <<index-action-type>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Action tasks always begin with `actions:`. For example, the `actions:.index` tasks back the <<index-action-type, index action>>.
```

> When diagnosing Alerting related issue, this subset of the tasks in the system may be of particular interest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: What I'm trying to express to the user here is that there are lots of different task types, and for alerting specific issues, it's the ones beginning with `alerting:` and `actions:` that they should be focusing on.
I fear that if we don't explicitly point this out, they are more likely to end up going down a rabbit hole (in trying to understand what the other tasks are) and file an SDH.

Is there another way for us to express this?

Author: 👍

> For broader details on monitoring and diagnosing task execution in Task Manager, see <<task-manager-health-monitoring>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details on monitoring and diagnosing task execution in Task Manager, see <<task-manager-health-monitoring>>.
```

Reviewer: stopped at index.asciidoc
